everybody welcome mention when the land
planes landing lights get red plus we
unlock Maggie on the last run gee I sure
hope she's a fun character to play
everybody's favorite character am I
correct xj 2's 7 vs x there's no way to
construct the sentence i construct the
sentence that starts with X that doesn't
use the word Xavier or xylophone I'm not
trying to give you an impossible task
I'm trying to give you a task that is I
should have been able to that once
completely my bad oh sorry I forgot I'm
doing this for you to a freaking Magus
you're playing five screen I never had a
chance no conceivable way we could have
made it out of that situation okay now
that I put on my youtube joy it's time
to get back to the rational discourse
that we normally pride ourselves on in
this show like for example how much is
too much food when it comes to being in
a movie theater I don't have any more
movie theatre etiquette stories as I am
recording this rate after I recorded the
last one it would be absurd if I hadn't
seen another film in the interim period
I have not exactly that pregnant pause
there by the way what an expression but
sounds like I'm trying to hide something
from you look I just watched the
Zapruder film on a you know smoky reel
in my basement an 18 millimeter film
that's not the case we don't have a
basement we live in Vancouver in case
you had forgot from me not mentioning it
for 14 seconds anyway keep it going here
I talked to like two episodes ago about
things I wouldn't want in my house and I
said I don't want an indoor pool I don't
want a garden you don't have a garden in
your house you know I don't want a yard
or a lot um I mean I guess a yard is a
little different I don't really want a
lawn I don't want a driveway you got a
shovel snow
but I would like a movie theater I will
admit that that has stuck with me I
don't want like a 100 person movie
theater just a little movie theater is
fine by me I also think like and this is
never going to happen probably but a den
where you had like a pinball machine and
one good arcade cabinet would be sick
I don't need I'm not a pinball
enthusiast but I like pinball if I could
get one solid pinball machine I would I
would be cool with it the problem with
an arcade cabinet though I feel like
I've seen people I don't know if I've
known anybody personally that's owned an
arcade cab owned an arcade cabinet but
second hand I've heard of people buying
them and apparently you just lose your
luster for it pretty quickly
like I have no interest in owning Donkey
Kong sorry to tell you that Steve Wiebe
but I'm not going to buy your Donkey
Kong jr. machine okay we should buy a
spirit hard as possible dude so many
reroll machines
I want donation machines I think if I
ever had an arcade cabinet I would want
it to be like NFL Blitz
or the NHL Showtime one is it anything
to show to center ice something like
that that was NFL Blitz but for hockey
NBA Jam would be another good one
something you play when there's people
around you could have some fun with I
know a lot of people are going to say
they want the six-person x-men machine I
have fond memories of going to I think
it was actually called cyber sports
world in my hometown I know that sounds
ridiculous but it was like a Chucky
Cheese we had bowling alleys and an
arcade and like a restaurant in it and
as a kid it was like my favorite place
on planet earth but then it became like
a roller derby their roller rink and
then it went out of business but anyway
like I believe it was called cyber
sports world that's gotta hurt
it was a it was a lovely time I played
that game all the time there but I don't
know I just can't get behind most
old-school beat-em-ups in this day and
a lot of you know they serve their
purpose at a time without a doubt and
there's been some great ones you know
I've been teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
for turtles in time more times than I
can count
beating Streets of Rage to a beatin to
TMNT 1989 actually literally like 25
times although it was the Xbox Live
Arcade version for my 2007 however this
is the longest Larry jr. I've ever seen
there was an on display this is
outrageous I think I'm more of like I
want NBA Jam that's my style I think I
don't want to ouroboros a pain here I
don't want area 51 I'm not a big light
gun games guy I don't like arcade racing
games that much because it always feels
like the racing sort of sucks and you're
just paying for the novelty of sitting
in a chair that's sort of like a race
car
give me MB hm I'm okay with that I would
love to have like a single bowling alley
in my house as well but again now we're
getting into like White House levels I
also feel like it's the kind of thing
you lose luster for dude got me hair
balls like the most common item we've
had in this freaking new save file could
be worse I guess it could be ghost baby
which is probably running a close second
right now along with robo-baby like when
I grew up my dad was always like one day
we're going to move to like a bigger
house I'm going to get a snooker table
I'm going to get like a six foot by 12
foot snooker by the way is a kind of
billiards I know if you're in Europe
right now you're going why is he
explaining what snooker is everybody
knows what it is not in North America
it's not that common in North America
you go to like a big pool hall they
might have like two snooker tables but
anyway here at least unless it's like a
really good one
maybe then but I don't know the one the
big pool hall Inara in my hometown is
called rax and it's basically like it's
pool but it's also Hooters for whatever
reason and what's ironic is that I had
so many birthday parties there
I don't think I ever had a birthday
party there I'm not sure but I went to
many birthday parties there and I was
always like why are them why is it
always just the dad coming to racks with
us but anyway I digress my whole
childhood adolescence he's like I'm once
once we get a bigger place I need a 6 by
12 snooker table I'm gonna play snooker
all the time they got a bigger place
like 7 years ago you got a 6 by 12
snooker table he played it actually like
a lot and then he sold it
he was like unites it loses its luster
you don't find yourself playing it all
that often I think a bowling alley could
be like that a pinball machine I suppose
a little different because it takes up
much less effective space a little dicey
in here but that's where I go I think
having like a like an eighth person
movie theater would be pretty cool I
don't want a basketball court I don't
want a swimming pool give me like a
large screen a comfortable chairs with
cupholders in them that's it plus you
can hook it up with Mario Cart but the
delay is never going to be right and
there's always going to be one dude
who's going to be like to hardcore he's
going to be like input delays not right
so I can't land my blue shells properly
and that guy is Austin moving on no I
can't say for sure I don't know if
Austin's big Mario Kart guy
he owns a switch but he only wants to
play Zelda which I understand that you
know there's like the meme right now
that's all there is oh isn't no it's not
an exemplar is just an item over there
the only thing there is the play on the
switches Zelda that's not true
there's also Mario Kart 8 deluxe edition
in my opinion the most beautiful game
ever made graphically the most
impressive no but the game that free
whatever when I play Mario Kart 8 deluxe
edition I feel like everything is right
in the universe like everything's going
to be okay like that game is like having
a therapy dog in video game chord this
is not by the way you if you've been
following the progression of
northernlion
you could not conceivably accuse me of
being a Nintendo fanboy i bought a wii u
when it came out we never touched it I
mean we touched it once every nine
months and when I'll tell you what I'll
give you the money lebowski Kaiser she's
huge
give me five cents please that's two
cents it's not like we can lose our
progress on the shop but still I want
that spirit art for the next floor
collect him your Chi eager she anyway
forgot what I was saying completely like
a hundred percent forgot what I was
saying what were we talking about mere
moments ago I've totally lost it we're
talking about this is why I thought we
could have a second trip sitter in the
conversation to keep you dedicated here
cyber sports world arcade machine
pinball machine movie theater I
forgotten the rest complaining whatever
okay that's good what happened to it it
was there in my memory what it meant to
be will eventually what it meant to me
will eventually be a memory of
I'm gonna try so huh and yet so far like
it's Craigslist in a big city just
littered with arcade cabinets people are
trying to sell I don't want to ruffle
any feathers you know there's like a lot
of classic video games I like I grew up
in the SNES era and I think there are
some anyway this is not a controversial
opinion there are some genuine classics
from the SNES era some games that hold
up Super Metroid Legend of Zelda a link
to the past Super Mario World Yoshi's
Island you know there's some like
sincere complete classics from that era
games that are not just nostalgia
goggles they're actually like you know
chefs kiss exquisite but maybe it's just
my age speaking I've gone back and
played a lot of the like 1980s classics
you know I played combat for the Atari
2600 I play the original pitfall play
cows sometimes you know my parents were
teenagers in the early 1980s late 1970s
you know when like arcade games were
starting to explode so sometimes they'd
be like hey we got you a gameboy game as
a birthday present oh sweet what is in
there it's Defender Plus joust on a
single gaming cartridge I love my
parents they were trying to bond they
were like this is what we played as a
kid you play like four minutes of joust
you know what you're getting into right
that's like those Atari games are
basically just mobile games with no
microtransactions which makes them
usually a lot better in that regard at
least but except for the fact that every
single play cost you 25 cents in 1980s
currency which is like a dollar 50 now
but anyways I'm not going to break the
circle Tory the games are the worst
they've ever been
let's grab this stuff and move along
here we can do a lot of donation and
maybe still buy a spear at heart as well
dim bulb Azera sorry illuminated bulb is
actually quite good what you want to do
is use the bulb or sorry use guppies
head as you're about to finish the room
that way you get the whole room of bonus
like bonus stats and at the end of the
room you still get the benefit out of
Guppies Guppies head that was very
dangerous by the way we have two guppy
items I just realized didn't even
lampshade it at all both of these are
good I think I'm gonna take the parasite
though because it's better oh we're not
supposed to adult app it's die hard
that's what I'll say about that
um I know greed thank you that's the way
you work him because the reason greed I
like to burn futile but like I respect
the history lesson that those games can
teach you
I'm just not I don't know if those ones
actually reach the point where they can
like age into being classics it's like
movies right when people talk about
classic movies there's like a cut-off
point the earliest movie that anybody
tells you that you have to watch to be
like considered knowledgeable about
movies is like you know dial M for
murder or metropolis you know movies
from the 1920s as ancient those are old
movies but like there were 30 years of
movies that came out before metropolis
we don't talk about them because we're
just feeling it out you know there's
like you know man sneezes video of train
approaching you know these this is a
from an era where it was mostly just
like proving that the technology works
like you ever watched like your
grandfather's Home Videos I'm not
talking about those ones you sicko for
once I am king shaming but you know it's
always like half the time the lens caps
on it's mostly just about the fact that
the video is basically a mission
statement that says I have a camera
that's what those movies were like in
1905 or something like that that was
actually a perfect up you said play
there that I will probably never
replicate again grab this just for you
know potential bookworms sake
let's go check our curse room as well I
feel like there's something to be said
for that in videogames like one of my
friends got a ColecoVision in like the
year 2000 I don't know how this
situation presented itself but we were
stoked we were like no game console we
played like 30 colecovision games and
we're like this is not worth our time
now I'm sorry okay I can't even imagine
how difficult it was to make games for
the ColecoVision they're like we need
you to put graphics and sound and
gameplay into this games you have like
one kilobyte of memory storage so like
have fun
I found pills they opened up my eyes I
found the pills that is demanding with
that understanding if you can and I'm
not going to do too much research here
because I'm just giving myself more work
at this point but I welcome your
recommendations for like a good Atari
2600 game that survives without
nostalgia glasses there's some on the
NES I really really like Super Mario
Brothers - not the turnip one but like
the Japanese Super Mario Brothers - The
Lost Levels ooh cancer trink is pretty
good and we can use Guppies head however
we please I think that is like that game
holds up Super Mario Bros 1 as well
apart from that I haven't played that
many to be honest with you I think you
know Castlevania 3 Dracula's curse is
pretty good as well
there's got to be some other ones but I
think I think the NES era is where you
can start to say like these games
actually some of them stand up not all
of them but some of them stand up oh
dude original contra and super see yeah
okay there's there's a few classics no
doubt then even if you were born in like
the year 2000 I'd be like and maybe this
is me becoming my parents but I'd be
like you gotta at least try superseded
it's so good I played Super C for the
first time when I was like 19 it wasn't
like I was I had nostalgia goggles on
for it even supercedes not as good as me
contra but for some reason maybe it was
easier I kind of enjoyed him more at the
time of conception but but I could be
wrong I kind of liked missile command
that games okay
I can't imagine though like if you went
to an arcade today and I totally
remembered what I was about to say now
which was that when I was a kid there
actually was an arcade in our mall and
it was a it was a lovely time thank you
very much for sack head this is a great
item there's always this game I love to
play where you got anywhere is like a
firetruck and you got into it and you
drove around putting out fires it was in
like black and white vector art anyway I
digress just these are memories for me
at this point why would you do that but
it turned out so maybe I can't complain
this is a genuinely very strong run I'm
liking it a lot and there is an Isaac's
room back there we should try to give a
shot as well probably a good time to
point out if you consider yourself
photosensitive when it comes to flashing
lights Mike's life life I want to turn
this episode off things are flashing
I like flashing a lot considering that
we're only on the Deaf's one grab the
speed upgrade happy to have it
Oh guppies calm dunk dunk dunk dunk go
pee spoon let's go peep the this is
gonna be the strongest run we've had
since we started I think that was pretty
dumb this is said what was I gonna say
we were uh we were talking about our
case oh yeah I don't know maybe because
it's because I didn't grow up in that
era but I like Missile Command a space
invaders I like the space invaders
reboot they did in like 2009 for
Nintendo vs I thought that was a great
game that is I wouldn't say slept on but
not talked about that much anymore
probably because it was a remake of
space invaders that came out in almost
2010 but it was it was the critical
darling at the time okay the Timnath
which is okay I don't really want to
gamble right now because I do want to
try to make boss rush if I could knock
out boss rush with Maggie I don't know
what we unlock for that or for anything
but it does give me another thing ticks
off the post-it note which helps me out
and let's be honest as soon as we fire
one shot the parasite turned out to be
like a very very right decision for us
here because as soon as we fire shots
the parasite combined with Jacob's
Ladder just rips through the enemies
here they tried to stop us they don't
want you to get healthy um okay let's
get out of this surprisingly long floor
and we'll try to get the boss rush ASAP
we got to be approaching ten wins at
this point that might unlock Sheol
certainly it turns mom's heart and it
lives we'll see I actually you might
think I should be pessimistic and you
may be right I may be crazy but I think
we should be able to make it to boss
rush if we pick the right direction on
like one or two here on our first or
second try I should say I will also say
I think pac-man is a pretty good game in
terms of its place in videogame history
of course very important but as like a
game I do think pac-man holds up but I
don't know like just sort of barely I
think oh you know what I was gonna bring
up earlier was you think about like if
you went to an arcade in 1980 let's say
you played 12 games that's $3 doesn't
seem like that much money $3 for a whole
day's entertainment right that first
thought that's only 12 games I know some
people everyone's like I used to go to
the arcade with two quarters and I play
all day come on
I don't think so you're not Billy
Mitchell I love you but you know Billy
made sure at least in the pac-man
Department or the hot sauce Department
in all other departments superior but I
mean come on
you got to you got to attack we asked
the Billy Mitchell's got the hot sauce
game down pat anyway so you spent three
bucks
inflation is like on average three
percent per year at 37 years at three
percent inflation
I can't desert an inflation calculator I
can use for this I'm going to check it
in a second because things times is
tough here I don't think we're gonna
make boss rush I'm I'm actually booking
it as quickly as I can see what we can
do
Thank You rank Tom Mitchell is abili his
hair miss order feeling sorry didn't
mean oh and so Billy Mitchell there come
on come on come on what we as far as I
mentioned we made it well at least we
didn't like punish ourselves too much
they didn't give us the 20th second I
thought they would give us until 2000
you know 0.99 and I you broken my heart
is what you've done here Edmund you
broken my heart that was super close so
all the you know that gives us time to
punch it into the compound interest
calculator compound it's not compound
interest but inflation calculator
okay Inflation Calculator from the Bank
of Canada a basket of goods that cost
three dollars in 1980 would cost nine
dollars and two cents in 2017 that's not
that bad you know a few hours of
entertainment for uh for ten dollars
that's actually I expected it to be like
twenty three dollars or something like
that it turns out that I was I've been
under this false impression that our
cave games were very expensive
I will say though you know you paid a
quarter for those games back in the day
I think that with age they get at least
3% worse every year so they should still
cost a quarter in today's village would
you go to like a bowling alley and they
got a you know area51 machine that's
rigged up and it costs 50 cents per play
you're like come on guys I understand
prices rise but this game has not
changed you know you you bought it in
like the year 2000 but you need to get
it refurbished there's one area 51
mechanic on the eastern seaboard you've
got to fly them in why I'm flying in and
pay them like you know $800 an hour as a
consultant or something like that I
don't think so and arcade cabinet is a
static good game should always cost the
same as when it came out probably it was
a few notable exceptions I will say of
all the casualties of like you know
businesses at least in my era our caves
kind of hurt a little bit I was going to
say hurt the most but there were some
cool arcades when I was a kid you guys
ever had the play tiem I know there was
one like I went to the one in
Mississauga which is near Toronto
Ontario the capital of Canada now I'm
just contributing to misinformation but
it makes me feel good so to spread
ignorance about my own country it's
basically just a huge arcade like
enormous and then you go and you play
arcade games and you win tokens or
tickets on those arcade games you trade
them in for something at the end of the
day they had all the cool ones like they
had silent scope where you get a sniper
rifle and then the one where you like
get on it and it's skis and you actually
like use your legs to control the game
things that at the time you got to
remember we didn't know the Microsoft
Kinect would eventually come out and
make us very cynical about this sort of
stuff so at the time we were like this
is the future of gaming but it's not
quite there yet
spoilers young Ryan it still is
think it ever will be that's okay we've
innovated in other areas of the industry
oh yes my favorite Marvel film the areas
of the industry anyway those places were
cool they had at the one in Mississauga
at least they had a a Tekken 3 arcade
cabinet that was actually like a booth
with green screen and it tracked your
arms and legs to map to moves for the
characters it was basically like a
terrible Kinect I know that goes without
saying I suppose but it was a worse
Kinect but at the time I was like is
incredible the novelty was there and you
know you weren't
it didn't seem like that bad of a deal I
don't know my parents were the ones
signing the checks at that point let's
be honest so I have no idea to be honest
but to me it always seemed like you know
you might spend 40 or 50 bucks of the
play diem you know because the kind of
crappy games were 25 cents each but some
of the ones that have props were $1.00
dude Jacob's Ladder just relax a little
bit we know these pretty flies okay
Metro visions okay so you might spend
like 40 or 50 bucks on three or four
hours in the place it's not necessarily
the cheapest day out but you know maybe
not that much more expensive than going
to see a movie at the time with the you
know if you're paying for a few people I
suppose joke read as only use Joker
right now and see if we do oh oh hey no
we're fine
we don't need to take this because we
have a hundred percent chance we should
have say the Joker for the next floor
but it probably doesn't actually matter
at all
it seemed like a good deal at the time
now like pinball's sort of still around
like there's some hipster bars in
Vancouver that have pinball and that's
really cool
because you go there and you go I'm
going to be awesome at pinball and then
you play pinball and you're like people
it's hard there's like a lot of
intricacy and also these machines are
beautiful works of functional art but
now like more stuff online we a couple
of years ago me Josh Michael Fox and a
few of our friends went to Niagara Falls
and they have like an arcade sort of
thing in downtown Agra Falls in the
Canadian side but the arcade sucks like
it's not games anymore in the same vein
as like arcade games like I know that
sounded like a ridiculous sentence like
the big machine the marquee machine that
this Boston Pizza arcade was like Deal
or No Deal
so you go there and you like pick a case
and then the computer offers you 50% -
one of what the added up value of the
average value of the remaining cases and
then you say no and then they go you
want a million dollars and you get like
a bunch of tickets but it's not really
that enjoyable there's no skill
necessarily Deal or No Deal is a game
show I will always harp on there's no
skill whatsoever involved in literally
is like dice roll the game the the
banker calls you up and goes hey the
average value of the remaining cases is
$15,000 we're going to offer you 14,500
are you willing to you know take on a
level of risk knowing that we're trying
to sucker you just a little bit like
it's the most stupid anyway look if you
love to Deal or No Deal more power to
you
it doesn't make for a good arcade
cabinet it was like that and doodle jump
and then the Guitar Hero arcade cabinet
where I put in a dollar and then
accidentally hit the green button too
many times messing around and ended up
having to play slow ride by Foghat
uneasy which is just about like that was
probably the worst dollar I've ever
spent in my life if I'm being honest and
I've I've thrown some dollars away
anyway I lament the loss we are kids the
problem is I think people always go we
should bring them back
you know bar-kays kind of exists but
maybe they're gone for a reason maybe
they're better left in the past
what was that enemy the little white
circle maybe it's better a you know
meant as a memories of what it meant to
me when I tried so hard and cut so far
because like it is kind of nice to have
a communal space where you could where
you could like get together with
like-minded individuals and plate things
now we play it in the privacy of our own
home there's nothing wrong with that you
know we get the socializing from being
online but you know when the arcade you
weren't going hey I fudged your mother
you fudging idiot blah blah blah my
trash Todd game needs some work to be
fair but you know in this day and age I
can't I don't know I play player unknown
battlegrounds with a voice on sometimes
it just makes me want to die
people said I've talked to one guy he
said hey do you want a piece of my hot
dog pizza and I said no and he he didn't
respond to that but he was making some
noise into the microphone it made me
very concerned anyway thanks for
watching hope you guys enjoyed this
episode a very easy Maggie run if you
did click the like button helps out a
great deal of course subscribe if you
want to see more in the future for now
though thanks for watching and I will
see you next time
you